it's good to see so many familiar faces
and uh folks that's uh getting to me for
the first time here in person
after 18 months of stuck on zoom
i'm here today to share a few of the
secrets that we've had scaling zapier to
over 500 employees
now i'm told zapier is unique for a few
reasons uh one we've been distributed
for the decade of existence that was
quite unique a lit when we first started
doing that now it seems like the norm
for a lot of us
we've also largely built the company
bootstrap we raised about a million in a
seed round but beyond that we've scaled
the company with cash flows and our
balance sheet
also we've largely done this without a
sales organization which also makes us
somewhat unique so today i'm going to
share some of the lessons we learned
scaling but contrasting from the lessons
that i've had i'm going to share from
some folks you normally don't hear from
you know today we're going to hear from
a lot of founders ceos like myself we'll
hear from a tier executives we'll hear
from some great vcs but there's a group
of folks that we don't necessarily
always hear the lessons learned from
them these are the folks that form the
backbones of our companies
the early employees and so i talked to
20 of our earliest employees i found
some of their best lessons learned that
they've had along the way and hopefully
some of these might help you uh too in
building your companies
so this is the group of folks we're
going to hear from so we'll go through
them one by one
first we hear from zay so say shares
create scrappy solutions that are going
to get you eighty percent there they're
gonna last longer than you think
when i was talking to zay he shared a
little bit about the first mvp he built
for maintaining our zap template cms
system he built this system over four
years ago and today it
works with 20 000 different zap
templates
and it's largely that same mvp he built
four years ago
is it perfect no it's not perfect but it
got the job done and allowed us to focus
on other things that were more critical
in scaling and building the company
my takeaway here is the great news with
a lot of no code solutions things like
air table webflow even zapier itself
allow you to build things not just
quickly but also with quality and so
it's easier than ever to build these
mvps and actually have them go the
distance for you
next we hear from jordan jordan shares
don't brace for change instead learn to
love reinvention
when i was talking with jordan he shared
a particularly busy period of time that
he and his teams were going through they
were tasked with building out our
original teams product soon after they
launched the mvp of that they were
focused on building revenue expansion
then they had to focus on building a
billing system to support our new
revenues coming in then they moved over
to supporting our company's product
after that they came back to revenues
expansion all within a 12 to 18 month
period of time during this period their
teams were doubling and then splitting
into smaller teams and doubling again
and splitting into smaller teams yet
again and adding so many new folks new
leaders to this team while also folks
moving
on from the company at the same time
it'd be easy for all that change to be
daunting with folks but if you build an
organization that loves to reinvent
itself you'll find yourself more
successful over time my key takeaway
here is that you want to have a learning
culture a learning mindset building
companies is hard enough and so you want
everyone that you're bringing into your
org to adapt that mindset
next we hear from vicki vicki shares
when you're in the high growth stage
solutions to org problems are going to
have around a six-month
shelf life
don't be tempted to overthink that first
version and also don't be tricked into
thinking that it's going to be one and
done
instead build mechanisms that allow you
to constantly evaluate where you're at
and evolve over time that way you don't
have to rethink everything from the
ground up again
my takeaway here
is you're going to build for the
problems you have today
not necessarily for the problems you
might have a year or two from now
well it's smart and even good to think
about the problems that you might have a
year from now two years from now
it can also become tempting to over
index on those things and often if you
over on index on a year or two from now
you'll find that the solutions to your
problems don't actually solve the
problems you have today and so by all
means think about what's coming next but
make sure to really understand the
problems you're facing today and build
your solutions with those in mind
because like vicky says they're going to
have about a six month shelf life
next we hear from adam so adam shares
invest in a strong hiring and onboarding
process from day one
adam mentioned one of the things that's
kept them around zapier so long is the
caliber of the people
and he attributes that largely to a
great hiring and onboarding process and
the way you do this is one you make sure
you have members of the team that are
trained on interviewing and onboarding
making sure they know how to evaluate
people that are going to be a great fit
for those roles
two when they onboard in the company
make sure to teach them values the way
you work what matters to your culture
three institute a great pairing culture
parent culture means that new folks have
someone that they can go to for
difficult questions to ask
and make sure that they have someone to
ask those kind of nervous things and
coach them along the way and then four
you can repeat the cycle again at the
end so those folks who are new as they
become veterans teach them how to be the
next generation of interviewers and
onboarders into your company such that
you have a strong hiring and onboarding
process and great people in your
organization over time
my key takeaway here is that you want to
make sure
that the job you have to offer is a
great one one of the best things your
company offers is a good job and so
don't skimp on your hiring and
onboarding process
next we hear from paulo paolo shares
people are going to be more passionate
about the work they have a good
understanding of products and customers
one of the things paulo mentioned to me
was how we invested a lot in all hand
support for a long time we asked every
single one of our employees no matter
what function you worked in to do some
support and what this meant is that all
of our folks really understood the
product that we were building and what
was special about it and they also
understood who our customers were and
what made them tick
my takeaway here is
for as long as you can i know folks are
not going to love it not everyone's
going to love it find some way somehow
to get your employees in front of
customers and get them using the product
however you can whatever mechanism that
looks like make sure they spend time
doing this it will pay off dividends
over time
next we hear from stephanie stephanie
shares startups are hard enough so be
someone you want to work with
stephanie's been a lot of different
companies and some of those companies
have been great and she wants to stick
around over time some of them haven't
been so awesome but the ones that she
does want to work with are places where
folks who show up eager challenge each
other work hard push each other
and are largely other people that she
wants to work with over time and as a
result
it's going to keep folks around
my key takeaway here is that it's really
important for all of us
to look in the mirror and say hey am i
the type of person that others are going
to want to work with
it doesn't matter how smart you are how
talented you are if you're a jerk at the
end of the day
and so looking in that mirror and making
sure that you are going to be someone
that
someone wants to show up and work
day after day week after week month
after month year after year to build
something special with is really going
to change
the type of company you can build over
the long haul
bin has something very simple to share
people come first
i love this one when i talk to ben he
comments on four different aspects where
we work hard to take care of our people
one is the employees that we have in the
company we work hard to have great
rewards and recognitions programs a
great culture that folks want to show up
to day in and day out he talks about our
customers and the work we do to build a
great product and to be build great
services to support them over time
mention that all hand support mechanism
we used before
he talked about our partner ecosystems
and what we do to build an open platform
to allow anyone to integrate with our
product and he talked a lot about our
power users and how we try and support
them by sharing their stories retweeting
their good news and really showcasing
the special things that they do and all
things we try and do people come first
my takeaway here is that orgs exist to
serve people don't forget that
it's really important to understand who
your key stakeholders are and what
matters to them and work hard to serve
them over time
next we hear from steve steve shares
keep the values but change the mechanics
companies change constantly whether it's
your code base your org chart your
systems and processes your go to market
motion all these things are going to
change and evolve over time
so your organization needs something to
ground itself that could be a shared
mission a shared purpose or shared
values in the case of steve these things
help people feel a sense of continuity
over time
next week from lens lens reminds us have
fun
it builds camaraderie it makes people
want to stick around
now it's all great to have uh you know
shared values shared purpose shared
mission but as your org gets bigger and
bigger and bigger can start to feel a
little more lonely and so one of the
things that lindsay's team done is
they've branded the support organization
they have this term called keep support
weird
it's kind of silly yes but as the ore
gets bigger it helps it feel smaller
helps you feel connected to the core
mission of the small team that you're
working with
my takeaway here is startups are hard
enough
we work hard at this work and so
remember like lin said have some fun
next we hear from joe joe shares don't
hire for the sake of hiring ensure
you've got a six-month plan for all new
hires
i was talking to joe one of the things
he mentioned is his most successful
folks that he's hired he's worked hard
to set expectations for what three
months looks like what six months looks
like he knows what those expectations
are going to be so that when person
joins the company they're much more
aligned with what success is going to
look like
when we haven't done that when joe
hasn't done that
the results aren't as strong
my takeaway here like joe said is make
sure to define those expectations up
front it can be tempting to want to
throw more bodies at problems and say oh
if we just had one more person if we
just had 10 more people we might be able
to solve this but if you don't have a
clear perspective of how they're going
to help you're going to end up
overspending and put too many cooks in
the kitchen and it's going to be hard to
get things done
oh can we go back one oh there we go i
think we're good
uh andrew shares core values will stick
with you as you grow take the time to be
mindful
about those values hire for those values
and live those values when i was talking
to andrew you mentioned how uncanny it's
been some of those things that we
thought through at 20 people have scaled
with us to 300 to 500 and have ripple
effects over where we've gone those sets
of core values have really helped us be
intentional about where we're taking the
company if you contrast the places where
we maybe weren't as mindful those have
also had ripple effects too
my takeaway here is one of the most
common things i heard talking to folks
and andrew is no different is how
important those core values are in
establishing those early we bake them
into our hiring process and so it's part
of our hiring rubrics we evaluate people
against those we bake them into our
performance review process and so it
becomes a part of who we are and it
encourages everyone to make decisions
with those core values in mind
next we hear from rob rob shares even
when you have positive intentions going
to make mistakes
rob reminded me of a time where uh we
used to have a profit sharing program at
zapper we still do but it broke at one
point in time that could be a story for
an entire talk itself but stuff is to
say uh we had to rethink how we did
profit sharing at zapier it would have
been easy to say you know what we're not
going to exactly pay how we thought we
would but for a period of time you said
you know what it's going to cost us a
lot more more
to do it the way that we should do what
that we had said to do it and we're
going to go ahead and do it that way
because it's better for our people
my takeaway here is
it's not the mistake that kills you it's
how you respond that matters
if you own up to the mistake if you
course correct people will understand
they will give you a long leash but if
you're trying to ignore the problem or
hide the problem
that's where you're going to get in
trouble over time
next we were from statwonk our local
data scientist
stat wang shares measure outcomes not
effort
one of the key things here is that
effort doesn't necessarily correlate to
outcomes over time so you want to be
clear about what it is that you're
driving for i talked to him he was
sharing a particular problem around code
reviews
code reviews at zapier are really
helpful they help us avoid shipping bugs
into production
but there's a challenge if there's code
reviews for everything it also delays
getting valuable features out to
customers
so one of the things we've done over
time is said you know what we're going
to put in infrastructure to make sure
code review is happy against some of the
riskiest changes and then we find
another path to production for other
types of changes
if we were measuring for effort we would
say hey do code reviews everywhere but
that desk definitely wouldn't have
allowed us to get great features in
front of customers as fast as we
possibly can
takeaway here is like stat wang said
make sure you're focused on the f the
outcomes here
but even better is if you can find a way
to connect efforts to outcomes then
you've won the jackpot because now you
can drive that effort and make sure that
it's leading to the outcomes that you
want for your customers and for your
business over time
next we hear from justin here
justin shares beware of teams sharing
code without clear ownership
one of the things we tried to do in the
early days to go faster
was to share code you know when you have
an engineering team of two four six
eight
uh it's tempting to say hey let's let's
share these methods and as a result we
might be able to go faster
what we quickly found over time is
some of those initial designs
worked
some of them
didn't work so great and as more and
more teams start to rely on those core
design principles you realize oh maybe
some of those things aren't going to be
as scalable and what started as a thing
that helped us go fast quickly as the
engineering board grows from 8 to 16 to
32 to 64 now becomes the very thing that
slows you down over time
my takeaway here it's hard to
re-engineer things at scale
whether it's code your go to market
motion
your org charts all of these things are
difficult the bigger to change them
become more difficult over time
and so to the best of the ability if you
can understand the strong foundations
and then scale you're going to be better
off over time
next we hear from jesse jesse shares
it's easy to get ahead of yourself focus
on solving current problems before
thinking about solutions for future
challenges
when i was talking to jesse one of the
things they shared with me was a
particular problem they were trying to
solve in the early days they had an mvp
that they were working through uh and as
they started to work through they were
trying to anticipate all the things that
could go wrong so i might need a feature
for this we might need a feature for
that and they'd started to work on
building it all out by the time they got
ready to launch this sort of mvp for
some internal stakeholders
folks were kind of confused by it like
this doesn't really solve the problem
that that we have
and so jesse went back to the drawing
board tightened things up got rid of a
bunch of the features and focused on the
one core problem set that we have we'll
ship that out
the reaction was much better people
really liked what they had
my takeaway again here is that you want
to focus on the problems you have today
rather than the problems you might have
down the future
let the future problems show themselves
as you get into the future and worry
about solving the things that you have
right now
next we are from danny danny shares
there's no such thing as a small role
help employees understand their impact
regardless of if they're
if they're a manager or an individual
contributor
some of your earliest employers are
going to get lots of opportunities that
come their way to take leadership roles
to take management roles and at first
it might seem like the best thing for
their career path in fact some folks
will thrive in those roles and do great
but as your organization grows and if it
grows faster and faster your org growth
might outpace an individual's ability to
grow
and that's okay
so it's important to make sure each of
your early folks really understand there
is a path for them inside your company
my takeaway here is that it takes a
village to build companies and you
really want to invest in all of your
people make sure you they understand
that no role is unimportant every role
serves a purpose and has value over time
next we hear from cooksey cooksey shares
equip employees to prepare for a
constant state of change it's inevitable
that org structures will shift and
processes will break down
cooks and i were reminiscing about a
particularly fast growing year in
engineering that we had
and he
posited the question i wonder how many
people had multiple
engineering managers this year and we
looked back at it there's quite a few
but what maybe caught us a little off
guard there was multiple folks that had
over four
engineering managers in one given year
now obviously four managers in a year is
not the ideal state of things that can
be a pretty tricky thing to navigate
however when you're growing fast
sometimes that kind of change is
inevitable
and so again it's really important to
build an organization that has a
learning mindset that's willing to
embrace change and to really focus on
what are the needs of the customer and
how can we best solve for those things
over time
next we hear from james james shares as
you grow
becomes important to move away from a
mindset of i can do it all and instead
become accustomed to delegating
james sharer one of the allures about
joining a small company is the speed at
which you can
operate
you can build things fast you can build
something in an afternoon ship it out to
the site and that can be such a fun
exciting time for companies
but as you grow one of the things you
quickly realize is you can't build
everything your customers want a lot and
it can be difficult to keep up with all
the demands and challenges that your
customers are going to have of you
and if you try and do it all you're
going to burn yourself out so when you
find yourself in that moment it's
important to step back
take a deep breath
understand what you're best capable of
delivering
then
prioritize that work and find and build
a great team that you can delegate and
assign things out to
my takeaway here is again it's really
important to invest in your early
employees
your early employees are going to be
stretched in all sorts of new and
different ways
and the skills that they had in the
early days like building great things
may not be the skills that are going to
help them into the future and so you
want to help them grow and evolve over
time
next week from micah micah shares don't
play business until you have to
especially when you're quite young when
you're less than 20 people uh it's
really hard to have
to do everything that bigger
organizations can do you're gonna hear a
lot from a lot of great folks today
we'll share tons of best practices
many of those things won't be possible
if you're a quite small company and uh
mike is advice i find to be particularly
good
you may not be able to build reports for
everything you might not be able to
adapt the applications these larger
organizations are doing but what you can
do is focus on three things one are you
building a great product for your
customers two are you helping sell more
of your stuff and three are you serving
those customers really really well if
you do those things you can let other
stuff you can save that for later down
the line
next from my co-founder mike mike shares
don't forget to invest in innovation
you're risk getting left behind
all new companies innovate in some
particular way and once you find product
market fit you can start to grow and
grow and grow and that feels great
but if your founding team is the only
ones that are thinking about information
and they're now focused on scale what
you can find is that innovation starts
to stagnate so it's really important
in your organizations to bring in other
folks that are thinking about the future
and are helping advance the vision and
the mission and pushing on new things
not just operational effectiveness
but what is going to take you to the
next chapter for your organization
for my other co-founder brian brian
shares hire senior people sooner
people that have been there and done
that but are still scrappy
this is something we didn't do early
enough i think we were fearful that
folks would come and join the company
and not really want to roll their
sleeves up get their hands dirty but if
you look around even at an event like
this there's so many of us now that have
so much more experience than sas and are
still willing to roll our sleeves up
now yes of course there's folks who are
tired and you know want to sit back and
advise and point that but for all those
folks you can definitely find senior
leaders who are more than willing to
come in and join a small company and
carve out a path for the future
and last i'll share my tip here uh we've
heard from a lot of great uh tips from
early zapiers but my
advice would be break the rules
best practices are gonna get you the
same outcomes as everyone else
the best companies are outliers and
they're outliers in one or two key
dimensions so you're gonna have to find
a place in your organization that's you
want to stand out whatever that
dimension might be don't be afraid to
take risks do something that looks a
little weird people might go i'm not
really sure that makes sense
but those are the areas if you don't
take those chances you find that you
won't stand out
over time
so with that
let's wrap things up here with a quick
summary there's a few things that i
think stand out from what i heard from
our earliest employees one put people
first like i mentioned
organizations exist to serve people so
understand what makes
what your people care about and work to
serve them whether your customers your
employees your investors you name it put
them first
two values matter these are things that
are going to have ripple effects as your
company grows
so the extent that you can define your
culture the values that you serve is
going to allow you to in hire people and
onboard people with those things in mind
and grow in a way that is going to be
much more smooth
over time
three change is constant
high growth organizations change all the
time so make sure you build a learning
mindset
that'll help your organization adapt to
the change over time
four be scrappy
because things are changing all the time
it's really important to find solutions
to problems that you have today rather
than ones that you might have over a
long period of time
and last focus on the fundamentals it
can be tempting to want to do everything
but your organization is going to win by
being great at one or two things in
particular and so make sure you get
those things right
thanks for having me here today i hope
you all learned something and enjoy the
rest of the afternoon
[Music]
you